let me tell you about how the band works
and how it's going to influence your
eating we've now treated many thousands
of patients over nearly 20 years we've
done a lot of research and we've got
some exciting new research on just how
you should eat after the band our new
research has explained really well how
the band works we know now that it
doesn't work by blocking it doesn't work
by restricting your food in a crude way
it works in a very elegant way by taking
away your appetite and it does that by
squeezing on the very top of the stomach
the adjustability of the band allows us
to achieve the right level of squeezing
in that area of the stomach of some
nerve endings that can feel that
pressure and they're sending signals up
to your brain saying the stomach is full
they think the stomach is full because
the band is there squeezing that area
that's squeezing is there 24 hours a day
and therefore your appetite is reduced
for 24 hours a day you wake up in the
morning not so hungry you can get hungry
during the day a little bit and so you
have a meal that's normal we want you to
eat we just want you to eat a very small
amount when you do eat you take a small
bite of food you chew it well and then
you swallow it and then the esophagus
which is a muscular tube passing down
through the chest will squeeze that bite
of food down and across the band and as
it squeezes it across the band it
stimulates these nerve endings that are
there even more and they're sending
further signals up each bite of food but
might require up to six squeezes to get
it across the band and each of those is
sending a signal saying you no longer
all that hungry that way after a small
amount of food you're happy to stop
eating and you wait for the next meal